TITLE: Sunday 8th September (Twenty-Third Sunday in Ordinary Time)
GOSPEL: Lk 14:25-33
"Which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it? Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation, and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him, saying, 'This man began to build, and was not able to finish.'”
COMMENTS: We are now at the beginning of the new academic year. This coming year will involve lots of classes and study and works and papers... and the norms of our 'plan of life'... So many things! That is why it's so important to do what Jesus suggests today in the Gospel, "_sit down and count the cost_." 'Well begun is half done', says the proverb. We need to plan the year right now, at the beginning. Your timetable, your study, your plan of life. This building is different for each person. There is no standard plan for everyone. You have to prepare yours in prayer, in dialogue, negotiating with God.
A football player has a training plan. He knows the exercises he has to practise more, which are different from other football players. He knows that some days he has to train particular groups of muscles and rest others. The success of the whole season depends on his training plan. But football players don't just plan the exercises. They plan their resting periods as well. It's the perfect balance between exercise and rest that allows them to be fit for the matches. They also care much about their diet. An important part of their training too is tactical preparation and the concentration before each match. On September 22nd 2015, Bayern Munich was playing against Wolfsburg. Lewandowski was on the bench during the first half whilst his team was losing 1-0. He started playing in the second half. In 6 minutes he scored the first goal; 58 seconds later the second. Two minutes later, the third. Another two minutes on and he volleyed home a fourth. It took him three more minutes to add his fifth, with a brilliant acrobatic volley. When asked afterwards about his performance he just said that he had prepared for that match as always, 'conscientiously'.
How important is the preparation before the game! Let's plan our academic year conscientiously as well. My timetable for my plan of life (my prayer, Holy Mass, spiritual reading...), for study, time for leisure as well and sport... Mary, my Mother, I entrust to your intercession the new academic year that we now begin.