TITLE: Sunday 22nd September (Twenty-Fifth Sunday in Ordinary Time)
GOSPEL: Lk 16:1-13

"He who is faithful in a very little is faithful also in much; and he who is dishonest in a very little is dishonest also in much. If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will entrust to you the true riches?"

COMMENTS: "_He who is faithful in a very little is faithful also in much_." Our faithfulness to God is shown in little things. If we aren't faithful in the little things, how can we be faithful in the big ones? It would be like wanting to be a martyr and give your life to God and, at the same time, being unable to get up on time out of laziness or complaining because the soup is cold or the Coke is warm... If you can't offer a little sacrifice, how could you ever offer a big one?
How important are little things! "_'Great' holiness consists in carrying out the 'little duties' of each moment_," teaches St Josemaría. Our holiness won't probably depend on being able to die a martyr for Christ, but on being able to live daily for Christ. Martyrs are not holy because they were martyrs. They are martyrs because they were struggling for holiness before. Saints lived some extraordinary moments, but 99% of their lives were like yours: get up on time in the morning, tidy your room, be on time for class, study, do your jobs, pray, go to bed on time, smile at the inopportune friend, eat what you are given. 
The enemy of our holiness is more powerful than us. We won't beat him by extraordinary things. It is by many little things that the victory will be ours (or rather, Christ's). Remember David and Goliath. That giant could not be beaten with swords, arrows or armies. He was stronger than all that. What defeated him was a small smooth pebble. Do you remember 'The Hobbit'? All the hopes were pinned on that little 'halfling'. When Galadriel asks Gandalf why he chose a hobbit, the wizard replies, "_Saruman believes it is only great power that can hold evil in check, but that is not what I have found. I found it is the small everyday deeds of ordinary folk that keep the darkness at bay. Small acts of kindness and love_." The building of our holiness is made out of many 'little' bricks. Mary, my Mother, teach me to be faithful in the little things that your Son is asking from me at each moment, to "_do what I ought and concentrate on what I am doing_" as St Josemaría taught.
